# SolarEnergyProjectsNY
### Analysis of a comprehensive record of distributed solar energy projects in New York State
The dataset includes a comprehensive record of distributed solar energy projects completed and in the pipeline in New York State, because of the New York State’s Incentive Program/ NYSERDA Incentive Program (for decentralized solar energy projects). The projects recorded span from 2000 to 2018. The data includes project costs, size, type of PV modules, incentives, and program types, and other variables that enable gaining insights into how to advance with the green energy transition and continue to foster decentralized solar energy production. 
## Data Source
The dataset was sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/unlock-clean-energy-with-nyserda-solar-electric) and was shared under a creative commons license by the [State of New York](https://data.world/stateofny). The dataset does not contain any personal information, and therefore does not infringe on data privacy concerns. 
## Research Question
The key question has been to understand whether incentives impacted the growth of solar energy projects, including residential, commercial and industrial. The hypothesis posed was that incentives have created a boost in PV installations for the commercial and industrial sectors. Proving this hypothesis to be wrong was also a goal, since recent research has indicated that incentives work only when technologies are very new and need to be tested in the market, but can be detrimental for upscaling emerging technologies, if they create an off market dependency, thus reducing their economic sustainability. Therefore, this case study offered the opportunity to look retrospectively at how solar energy projects developed and the impact of incentives. 
## Data Analysis
Analysis was done with Python, using several libraries (e.g, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn, SciPy) and included analysis of correlations, linear regression analysis, cluster analysis and time series analysis. The later used a second dataset retrieved from [Nasdaq Data](https://data.nasdaq.com/data/EIA-us-energy-information-administration-data), which showed trends on NY State fossil energy consumption, and was really used just to practice time series analysis!
## Synthesis of Results
The detailed analysis is uploaded here, but a snapshot of results can also be viewed in this [TABLEAU dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/shared/423MXDKB5?:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)
